= DOD3 - Document Oriented Database (3) within Rails

== Summary
Concept build of a Documented Oriented Database within rails using active record.

For information on Documented Oriented Database - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document-oriented_database

A true Document Oriented database is designed to allow for dynamic schema and huge datastores. They require restful or other unique methods to deal with data. Searching for data is done view views which need to be prepared  prior to the search.

This system stores all information into a relation database, it breaks up each field as it receives it and stores it into its own store. This reduces efficiency but improves searchability. When it saves each item it creates or re-uses an existing field. This allows for searching by either a field (or multiple) for a specific peaice of data).

On the roadmap is building and searching custom views (indexes).


== Usage
DOD has three main methods
* retrieve
* store
* search

=== Usage Examples
==== Retrieve
* <b><tt>Doc.retrieve :all</b></tt>  => retrieves all document
* <b><tt>Doc.retrieve :first</b></tt>  => retrieves first document
* <b><tt>Doc.retrieve :last</b></tt>  => retrieves last document
* <b><tt>Doc.retrieve 56</b></tt>     => retrieves single document
* <b><tt>Doc.retrieve [45, 96, 100, 4]</b></tt>  => retrieves these documents
==== Store
* <b><tt>Doc.store { :user_name => "superman", :pasword => "letmein" }</b></tt>  => creates new document
* <b><tt>Doc.store { :_id => 96, :_rev => 3, :user_name => "atomicboy", :age => 12 }</b></tt>  => Updates document 96 with new values
==== Search
* <b><tt>Doc.search "superman"</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in any field
* <b><tt>Doc.search "superman", :fields=>:user_name</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in field named "user_name"
* <b><tt>Doc.search "superman", :fields=>[:user_name, :login_name]</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in fields named "user_name" or "login_name"
* <b><tt>Doc.search "super", :fields=>{:name=>[:first, :middle, :last]}</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in fields named :name=>:first or :name=>:middle or :name=>:last
* <b><tt>Doc.search "super", :fields=>{:name=>"*"}</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in fields named :name=>:first or :name=>:middle or :name=>:last or any other field directly below :name
* <b><tt>Doc.search "123456789", :fields=>{:phone=>{:office=>:freecall}}</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "12345678" in field named :phone=>{:office=>:freecall}} 
* <b><tt>Doc.search "per", :operator => "*"</b></tt>  => Returns an array documents which contains the letters "per" in any_field
* <b><tt>Doc.search "superman", :ids => [45, 10]</b></tt>  => Returns an array of document ids with exact match for "superman" in any field. Only searches the supplied document ids

== Build Documentation
Build "rake doc:app" for documentation.

== Roadmap / Features
* Views/custom indexes
* Turn into a plugin

== Credits
* Nigel Rausch

== License
The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2008 Nigel Rausch

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.